[IRIS]
In the beginning,
when our beautiful kingdom first
came to float above the clouds,
a noble, white cat
sat upon the throne.
One day, a black cat looked up
from the mud of the surface,
saw her,
and fell in love.
[IRIS]
The sky is in anguish.
I must guard the rune.
[MAN 1A]
There you are.
How are you feelin'?
You ready to head out?
[BOY]
I am.
Good. I'm hopin' you'll bring
some beginner's luck with ya.
I'm famished.
So, let's go and bag
ourselves some meat.
[MAN 1B] Hmph. They live
carefree up there,
while we fight for
our lives in the mud.
What I wouldn't give
to switch places with 'em.
[MAN 1C] There's a pack of
monsters heading this way!
‐‐[MAN 1B] What?
‐‐[MAN 1A] Damn it.
[MAN 1A]
They've finally come here, too.
You need to gather up
the children and run for it.
There's a cave in
the side of that hill.
You can hide there.
Okay. Understood.
Everyone else should
pick up a weapon.
We don't have time
to be afraid now.
Ready?
You take care of them.
We'll let you know when
the town's safe again.
Who knows.
Maybe we can bring down
a big one for you.
[CHILREN laugh]
They're here!
Get ready.
We'll protect our village
no matter the cost.
[VILLAGERS]
Right!
Now!
[MAN 1D screams]
[MAN 1B groans]
Oh!
[gasps] Are you hurt?
Just a little.
Can you move? We're close.
[BOY 1A screams]
[gasps]
Let him go!
Keep going. The cave's up ahead!
[BOY 1B]
'Kay.
Watch out!
[gasps]
Please go.
Take care of my sister for me.
[panting]
[gasps]
[BOY]
Hello? Hello?
Is anyone still alive?
It can't be far now.
Here's hoping this
place has a tavern.
[SKEERS]
Pardon, boy.
I was told that there was
a village in this area.
It's gone now.
Monster attack?
If the village is gone,
then what are you doing here?
[BOY]
Digging a hole.
[SKEERS]
A hole?
[BOY]
Is that wrong?
[SKEERS]
What's it for?
[BOY]
It's for the people who died.
So, what do you want?
Why haven't you gone for help?
The monsters got the
neighboring villages, too.
Don't push yourself further.
Keep this up, and you'll
die for nothing.
[BOY]
I don't plan to.
I get enough sleep.
What of food?
Take it.
[BOY]
Why give me this?
I don't have any motive.
Let's just call it a whim.
[coughing]
[SKEERS] So tell me.
What name do you go by?
I'm Skeers.
[BOY]
Call me what you like.
Everyone else did.
[SKEERS]
Hm.
I don't understand.
Isn't the King of Darkness
supposed to be
ruling and protecting
these lands?
That's right.
[BOY] Then why does he let
these monsters run wild?
The king must be occupied
with concerns of his own.
Oh, yeah?
I wonder if he's concerned
with the right things.
[SKEERS] What do you think
the "right things" would be?
The happiness of
the people he rules.
[SKEERS]
Heh. Superficial.
[BOY]
Yeah, well. I'm still digging.
How long do you
intend to do this?
[BOY]
Till the hole's deep enough.
And how deep should it be, boy?
[BOY]
Enough to reach the sky.
[SKEERS]
Interesting. Please explain.
I don't expect you
to get this, but, well‐‐
[SKEERS]
What?
[BOY] Light can reach the
depths of the darkest pit.
And there, even a faint
light can shine bright.
That thought makes the
world feel kinder to me.
More balanced.
Well said.
[BOY] Doesn't matter if
you're from land or sky.
We all end up
in a hole eventually.
We're the same...
...in the end.
[SKEERS]
Pick it up.
You'll need more than a shovel
to change this world for good.
Huh?
[SKEERS grunts]
What's wrong? Are you
finished already?
I never asked you to do this.
Maybe not. But still.
If you didn't want this,
then why pick up the sword?
[BOY]
I know what you're after.
You want me to get strong
enough to fight the monsters.
But I've got no chance.
[SKEERS]
I said nothing of the sort.
[BOY grunts]
Die. Better than wasting
your useless life
wallowing in despair
and cursing the world.
Huh?
[BOY]
What are you playing at?
If you think I deserve to die
then why hold back?
[SKEERS]
Call it a whim.
This is life and death.
You can't make that
choice on a whim!
Yet I do.
You don't have the
right: no one does!
And what if I say you're wrong?
That right exists.
The power to kill or save
at will belongs to someone
you could never
even hope to meet.
That's the truth.
But what good will
knowing it do you?
Is it enough to make
you submit to his rule?
You mean the King of Darkness?
I do.
The people of Black are destined
to obey the King of Darkness.
Yeah, but you're not
the king of anything!
[SKEERS]
You're right.
I am no one's king.
I'm a fool who tried to
become king, but wasn't chosen.
What's wrong?
Don't tell me you're
so weak a person
that you can be killed
at an old man's whim.
What are you trying
to prove here?
Damn it.
[grunts]
Listen to me.
You've a strong ideal
to push you forward.
But the people's happiness
is no easy goal.
You'll need more than
half‐hearted resolve
to achieve it.
Don't you think I know that?
Then what'll you do?
Wait for help to
fall from the sky
or dig another hole to nowhere?
It's time you came
to your senses.
You've an ideal to fight for
and you are now honor‐bound
to take that ideal and
transform it into reality.
[BOY]
Fine. I'll do it!
I'll become the next king!
I'll do whatever it takes!
[SKEERS chuckles]
[laughs]
What is it?
I'm glad, is all.
[BOY]
Glad for what?
For you.
For the miracle
I found in the end.
[BOY]
This isn't over yet, all right?
It is for me, actually.
Won't be long now.
Are you hurt? What's wrong?
[SKEERS] I fought the
current King of Darkness
over the succession.
"What's wrong" is that I'm old.
My sword.
Take it with you and
make for the capital.
I've a mansion there.
I hail from a noble family,
and the bearer of that blade
is considered its head.
So, go. Bring the sword.
And declare yourself with pride.
Announce that you are
a Prince of Darkness.
You'll encounter a knight
known as Vallus.
He's a good, loyal man.
Let him see what you
can do with a sword
and I'm sure he'll
look after you.
Earn his recognition, and
he'll serve you faithfully.
[BOY]
I never said I'd go.
You're a stubborn young man.
Just like me in my youth.
You're saying that I'm like you?
Heh. You've gotta be kidding.
[SKEERS] You'll need to
polish up your language.
I've felt it, too, by the way.
I've wondered if
a body could rest.
Not just in darkness, but in
light, as well, however faint.
[BOY]
Wait. Skeers.
Are you really... dying?
[SKEERS] I've been a husk
of a man for some time now.
My link to the Power of
Darkness has been severed.
We both see it.
The world is far from
what it should be.
When you ascend to the throne,
make it better.
Yeah.
He was born in darkness.
So how can he shine?
Is this... light coming from me?
I'm counting on you.
All right. I'll go.
[BOY]
I'll declare myself successor
to the King of Darkness,
just like you've asked.
After that, I'll be
able to do it, right?
To help everyone in this
world find happiness.
Progenitor Rune. Obey my will!
Calida, Lux, Puram, Lucem!
Banish the darkness. Shine!
[gasps] What?
[gasps] There are still so many.
Prepare yourselves.
The Knights of Light
fear no enemy!
Trust in the Queen!
Sir Phious!
The Rune's protection
is with us!
Don't let the beasts of darkness
sully the Kingdom of White!
Support them!
[MAGES]
Right!
[SHEAMA] Rune that none may
command but the White Priestess.
I beseech you to lend us a
fraction of your great power.
Light. Form a
shield against evil!
[KNIGHTS OF LIGHT yelling]
[PHIOUS yells]
Thanks for the help, Sheama!
We have the advantage.
Finish them!
[KNIGHTS OF LIGHT yell]
[IRIS]
As I thought.
The darkness is growing.
If this keeps up,
the balance will tip.
[gasps] Her Majesty's returning.
[SUBJECT 1A] Seems she drove
back the darkness again.
Ah!
[THEO]
Hey. Phious!
[PHIOUS]
Hello there, Theo.
[SHEAMA]
Well done today.
We need to be ready for the next
attack so rest while you can.
If anything happens,
I'll inform you at once.
[MAGES]
Ma'am.
May the Rune's
light protect you.
Welcome back, Sheama.
Thank you, Theo.
[THEO]
So how did the battle go?
Did you get hurt?
I'm Commander of the Knights
of Light for a reason.
And it's not because
I'm an easy target.
That's my brother!
Glory hog.
Give your sister's
support magic some credit.
[PHIOUS]
Support magic?
I didn't notice any.
[SHEAMA]
Oh, yeah?
That's odd, because
I seem to remember
someone yelling
"Thanks, Sheama."
[PHIOUS laughs]
I'm joking.
Yeah, well you're no comedian.
And you knights aren't
fighting all alone.
We mages are there with you.
Risking our lives
just as you do.
That's true. Of both
you and Her Majesty.
[SHEAMA] You know, with the
power of the Progenitor Rune.
It's possible that
the Queen could defeat
the Darkness for good.
But she can't afford to
expend all its power, right?
Interesting. You
receive the Rune's
protection through your
tiara, don't you, Sheama?
[SHEAMA]
I do.
But still. I can't
help but wonder.
She knows that light and dark
are meant to stay balanced.
Could that be causing
her to hesitate?
[PHIOUS]
No!
The Queen is determined to
vanquish the King of Darkness.
I hope that's the case.
[PHIOUS] Keep these thoughts
between us, Sheama.
I know enough to take your
words with a grain of salt.
But others won't.
I understand, Phious.
Remember. I'm the
kingdom's Court Mage
and a commander, too.
[AIDE 1A]
How are you feeling?
I don't mean to pry,
but you seem distracted.
You didn't use too much power?
I'm fine.
You've no cause to worry.
We prevailed yet again.
With difficulty.
Just how many times
have we done this now?
We may be outpaced before long.
So then, the Black...
Darkness waxes.
As does the strength
of its ruler.
Embodiment of instinct
that he is.
Eventually, he'll be
more than I can match.
[AIDE 1A]
Oh.
[IRIS] I'm sorry, but we need
to put even more resources
into military preparation.
[AIDE 1A]
Yes, My Queen.
You there. That's a fine sword.
Where'd you acquire it?
Do you actually need
me to tell you that?
I've been told
that Skeers' mansion
is somewhere in the city.
Do you know where it is?
[growls] You actually expect
my help, you brazen thief?
[yells]
[VALLUS] I demand that you
return my lord's pride!
[grunts]
Tell me this.
Is your name Vallus?
[gasps] That it is.
But how did you know that?
And what has happened
to Lord Skeers?
He's dead.
Was it by your hand?
[VALLUS]
No. A novice as pathetic as you
wouldn't stand
a chance against him.
What have you come here for?
I've glimpsed an ideal
that's worth fighting for.
Which means I have a duty
to myself and the world
to strive to bring
it to reality.
[gasps]
If you start from down there,
you'll have to crawl.
[BOY]
I'm determined. Not proud.
[VALLUS gasps]
[BOY]
I am a Prince of Darkness,
successor to the
King of Darkness!
You've convinced me.
I shall acknowledge
you as my lord.
I'll guide you to
the mansion at once.
Come.
[IRIS]
Progenitor Rune.
Grant us your protection.
When I see you like this,
I feel like your,
"White Priestess" title
fits you better than
"Queen of Light."
[gasps]
[SHEAMA]
You're up rather late.
Having trouble sleeping,
Your Majesty?
[IRIS] There's no need
to stand on ceremony.
I may be the Queen of Light,
but I still think of you
as an older sister, Sheama.
We've been together a long time.
Seems like only yesterday
we both aspired to the throne.
[SHEAMA]
We did.
And now you're Queen.
I... didn't mean‐‐
It's fine. I'm not
bitter about it.
You couldn't help but win.
[SHEAMA]
Say, do you remember her?
[IRIS]
Who?
[SHEAMA]
The previous Queen of Light.
[IRIS]
I don't.
It's strange, isn't it?
I remember that
someone preceded you.
But I can't recall anything
about who she was.
Or, no.
I remember one thing, actually.
She always had a peaceful
look on her face.
I have at least some
idea of why that is.
The Queen's duty is
to maintain balance.
You don't do that by acting
rashly or accumulating power.
Did you learn that from
the Progenitor Rune?
[IRIS]
I suppose I did.
That works in theory.
But darkness is determined
to tip the scales right now.
What are they after?
Do they want to take
the Rune for themselves?
[IRIS] No. At least,
most of them don't.
The Kingdom of Black's
people are just like ours.
But their king
is out of control,
and now he's dragging
them all to ruin.
[SHEAMA]
It's a shame.
I'm sure that, under the
next King of Darkness,
the balance between our
realms will be restored.
[SHEAMA] But you may have
been forgotten by then.
Our people might
not even remember
that you fought for them.
How you repelled the darkness,
time and time again.
I don't mind that.
As long as the future's
peaceful, it's fine.
Wow. You're so perfect.
I am not.
[SCOUT 1A]
Your Majesty.
[IRIS]
What is it?
[SCOUT 1A] The western
capital is under attack.
It's Bahl.
[gasps] Not him.
Your Majesty!
We'll head that way at once.
Go, Sheama!
You and Phious ready the troops!
[SHEAMA]
Right!